.\"{{{}}}
.\"{{{  Title
.TH HALT 8 "Feb 24, 1998" "" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Name
.SH NAME
halt, reboot, poweroff \- stop the system.
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Synopsis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/halt
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.br
.B /sbin/reboot
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.br
.B /sbin/poweroff
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Description
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBHalt\fP notes that the system is being brought down in the file
\fB/var/log/wtmp\fP, and then either tells the kernel to halt, reboot or
poweroff the system. If \fBhalt\fP or \fBreboot\fP is called when the system is
\fInot\fP in runlevel \fB0\fP or \fB6\fP, 
\fBshutdown\fP(8) will be invoked instead (with the flag \fB-h\fP or \fB-r\fP).
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Options
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Don't sync before reboot or halt.
.IP \fB\-w\fP
Don't actually reboot or halt but only write the wtmp record
(in the \fB/var/log/wtmp\fP file).
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Don't write the wtmp record. The \fB\-n\fP flag implies \fB\-d\fP.
.IP \fB\-f\fP
Force halt or reboot, don't call \fBshutdown\fP(8).
.IP \fB\-i\fP
Shut down all network interfaces just before halt or reboot.
.IP \fB\-p\fP
When halting the system, do a poweroff. This is the default when halt is
called as \fBpoweroff\fP.
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Diagnostics
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If you're not the superuser, you will get the message `must be superuser'.
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Notes
.SH NOTES
Under previous \fBsysvinit\fP releases, \fBreboot\fP and \fBhalt\fP should
never be called directly. From this release on \fBhalt\fP and \fBreboot\fP
invoke \fBshutdown\fP(8) if the system is not in runlevel 0 or 6.
.PP
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  Author
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
.\"}}}
.\"{{{  See also
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR init (1)
.\"}}}
