.TH KILLALL5 8 "18 Oct 1999" "mintinit version 0.1" "MiNT System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
killall5 -- send a signal to (almost) all processes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B killall5
.RB -signalnumber
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B killall5
is the SystemV killall command. It sends a signal to all processes except
the processes in its own session, so it won't kill the shell that is
running the script it was called from. Its primary (only) use is in the
\fBrc\fP scripts found in the /etc/rc.d directory.
.PP
If you have the vague idea that the program
.B killall
should really send a signal to named processes you are probably the BSD
type of mind and should look at
.BR killall (1)
instead, the BSD version of this command. 
.PP
Under MiNT there is no real session concept and it is therefore impossible
to detect whether a particular process belongs to our own session or not.
But in fact the sole purpose of
.B killall5
is to kill
.I tout le monde
in the halt resp. reboot script while saving those processes that need to live
on in order to finish the shutdown sequence.  Other implementations omit 
special system processes that are known to be needed by the shutdown sequence
(e. g. processes the commandline of which start with
.I /etc/rc.d/rc
or the like).
.PP
This version of
.B killall sends the specified signal to all processes except
.IP -
the calling process itself
.IP -
all ancestors of the calling process (i. e. the parent, grand-parent,
grand-grand-parent and so on)
.IP -
special system processes, namely the process IDs 1, 2 and 3, normally
.B init, update 
and 
.B sld
to avoid killing the operating system itself.
.PP
Users should never invoke
.B killall5
directly.  Its sole purpose is really the shutdown procedure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR halt (8),
.BR reboot (8)
.SH BUGS
None, never, impossible (see AUTHOR below).
.SH AUTHOR
Guido Flohr (gufl0000@stud.uni-sb.de)
